[Music]
being an older sibling comes with a
handful of perks the right to bust
someone around missing out on old
hand-me-downs and of course more smart
wait say what you heard it here first
studies show that firstborn children
score higher on IQ tests but if you're
not the eldest of your siblings don't
stress
you also boast some pretty impressive
features but when it comes to vocabulary
reading and atomic wedgies the oldest
siblings win hands down
[Music]
whether you have one sibling
or five you've probably experienced a
little bit of healthy competition with
them during childhood and maybe even as
adults but if you're an older sibling
some major bragging rights may be coming
your way thanks to a new study from
economist at the University of Edinburgh
after assessing around 5,000 children
ages 0 to 14 every two years researchers
discovered that first born kids had
better thinking skills compared to their
younger siblings but it isn't because
they took up all the smart genes before
their younger siblings could get to them
it was discovered that in general older
siblings receive more attention and
mental stimulation from their parents
why is that well if you think about it
having just one kid to take care of
gives a parent more time to help them
with tasks and activities versus having
two or more kids to interact with tasks
like reading playing musical instruments
and doing crafts become harder the more
children you have this extensive
attention is more mentally stimulating
and can help enhance a child's ability
to solve problems and complete tasks
so which tasks are older siblings
thriving in firstborn score higher in
tests pertaining to vocabulary letter
matching reading single words aloud and
picture vocabulary these firstborn kids
scored higher on IQ tests from as early
as age one according to data acquired by
the US Bureau of Labor Statistics pretty
impressive right okay but what about the
younger siblings do they have any wins
when it comes to birthing order of
course they do
according to research from the
University of Birmingham and reading
younger siblings are more likely to
repel meaning they're bigger risk takers
and can accomplish a lot in the business
world the study found that the youngest
sibling in the family was 49% more
likely to go far as an entrepreneur and
become their own boss who's buzzing whom
around now great little ones while there
are many studies that find advantages
and disadvantages among kids and their
siblings no family is exactly alike when
it comes to their upbringing factors
like income and environment can dictate
how successful or unsuccessful children
are in life so these results may vary
but what if your siblings who have been
raised in unusual situations like Prince
Harry and Prince William of the royal
family since Prince William is just two
years older than his younger bro Prince
Harry do you think he's smarter well
there's no way to know for sure unless
you happen to be buddies with one of
these guys there are hints that maybe
Prince William has a tad more wisdom
than his younger brother with the
impending birth of Prince Harry and
Megan Markel's first child just around
the corner
Prince William can probably give them
advice about children since he has
experience in that arena but that's all
based on the fact that Prince William
has experienced these things first not
necessarily on his brain power I guess
the only way to find out is to put the
two brothers head-to-head in a knight
q-test are you the oldest sibling and
wondering if you're really smarter than
your younger family members perhaps
you're the youngest of five and are sure
you've inherited all the smarts in your
family either way there are plenty of
ways you can test yourself to see if you
are truly the smartest in your family
here are some things that can indicate
you're a little smartypants you're a
worrywart do you constantly feel like
you've forgotten something
do you stress every day about whether
your family members are okay I hate to
break it to you but this means you're a
bit of a worrywart while worrying all
the time may get annoying to those
around you and even yourself it can be a
sign that you're very intelligent a 2015
study from psychologist dr. Alexander
penny revealed that people who worried
more scored higher on a verbal
intelligence test people who worry tend
to think about the consequences of their
actions which is a form of critical
thinking so if you're worried about
whether or not you're smart keep
worrying you took music lessons as a kid
ah remember the days of after-school
piano lessons well you may not have been
too happy about them back then you may
want to thank your parents for making
you do them that's because studies are
showing that childhood development can
be enhanced by learning how to play a
musical instrument according to a study
by the association of psychological
science early music education can do a
kid a lot of good when it comes to test
scores they found that even one month of
music lessons can significantly improve
test scores in four to six year olds
kind of makes you wish you had continued
taking those piano lessons back in the
day right
[Music]
you're an introvert hate going out on
Saturday nights prefer to binge on
Netflix with your cat no you're not a
loser
you're just an introvert being
introverted means you prefer spending
time alone rather than going to parties
or hanging out with a lot of people all
this can leave you feeling exhausted and
you tend to feel most yourself in calm
environments if this sounds like you you
may be more intelligent than you think
according to the gifted Development
Center 60% of gifted kids are
introverted it's believed that
introverted people tend to think things
over more which is a trait found in many
highly intelligent individuals looks
like spending the night in isn't so
embarrassing after all you talk to
yourself when you're walking around the
grocery store or hanging around the
house alone do you tend to talk to
yourself sure you may look crazy to the
outside world but this may be a sign
that you're a bit of a Brainiac Gary
loop yawn a psychologist and a
researcher conducted an experiment with
twenty participants he asked them to go
into a grocery store and remember all
the objects shown to them half the
people were asked to repeat the names of
the objects as they saw them the other
half were told to stay silent in the end
the people who spoke the words of the
objects out loud found the objects
significantly faster
this led Lou peon to believe that people
who say things to themselves in their
daily life tend to have better memories
stay more focused and sort through
things with more clarity so the next
time your family members who laugh at
you when it catch you talking to
yourself remind them that you must have
inherited all the brains in the family
you tend to procrastinate
back in school you were told that
putting off your work was a bad thing
but little did you know it was a
possible sign of high intelligence don't
believe me take the brilliant Steve Jobs
the CEO and co-founder of Apple was a
procrastinator himself and according to
psychologist Adam grant this was even
more proof that Jobs was a genius he
explains that when Jobs would put tasks
off instead of doing them right away he
was allowing different innovative ideas
to come to his mind naturally by doing
this he didn't settle for obvious more
common solutions to problems and you
thought putting up chores and work was
lazy you're just retching out that
incredibly smart brain of yours you were
the class clown if you love making
people laugh and can't resist throwing
down a good punch line now and again you
might be more verbally intelligent than
most at the University of Mexico a study
discovered that humor can have an impact
on intellectual capacity and help the
brain and nervous system stay sharp this
was revealed after researchers asked 400
students to take tests on various topics
and then provide humorous captions to
cartoons 86% of the students who scored
higher on the given tests created
funnier captions to the cartoons so if
you can make people laugh it turns out
you're also pretty smart watch out
double threat coming through do you
think you're one of the smarter people
in your family perhaps it's because
you're an older sibling or maybe you're
the youngest and want to argue that
point tell us if you believe this to be
true in the comments don't forget to
give this video a like share it with
your friends and click Subscribe stay on
the bright side
you